Today I want to talk about body armor.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering, which gives
me a unique perspective on all sorts of
things. I get a lot of questions about
sports drinks. What do I think of them?
Are they worth having? Are they worth
spending the money on? I like
reviewing things from that perspective
because
I I'm really bothered even with my
products. In fact, I frequently tell
people not to buy my products. Like for
example, we have a longer X3 bar. People
like, "Oh yeah, I'm a big guy. Should I
get the long X3 bar?" No, don't don't
get it. A wider grip means you have less
engagement of muscle. That that's a
longer story. That's an and I'm giving
you a very brief summary of it, but it's
just an example. I'm just bringing that
up for as an example of I'd rather you
just have the regular product and not
buy necessarily all the accessories
unless you really need them. So steering
people towards what's going to give them
benefit and just telling them, man, like
you don't need that. Hey, there's a
reason why I take like three
supplements. So today I want to talk
about Body Armor. For the longest time I
thought Body Armor was just a bottled
water company and I don't really drink a
lot of bottled water. Um not for any
particular reason other than hydration
is really overhyped. And most of the
knowledge
knowledge that we have of hydration
comes from the Gatorade marketing
department. So, like the idea that you
need 8 ounces of water a day, uh, I'm
sorry, eight glasses of water, all of
which are 8 ounces. So, 64 ounces of
water a day is ludicrous. You do not
need that. That is not true. That's just
marketing. And a lot of bottled water
companies in the early 90s jumped on
that Gatorade bandwagon after Gatorade
said it and justified selling their
product. Then Avon, which is naive
spelled backwards by the way, decided
that they were going to run with that
ball also. And now we have new
companies, well companies Body Armor is
owned by Coca-Cola and I'm pretty sure
Gatorade owns is owned by Coca-Cola as
well. I'm not really sure. Also, I don't
care. The long and the short of it is I
if you need electrolytes and you would
prefer I'm just going to go over the
sort of fruity one first. Uh, so there's
two types of body armor. There's the
water with the electrolytes, and then
there's, you'd call it the sports drink
one, which has 1,300 mg of electrolytes.
Of course, you got to drink the whole
bottle for that, which is 190 calories,
most of which is sugar. I'm not the
biggest sugar fan. Uh, I think from a
health standpoint, the amount of
carbohydrates you should be eating is
zero. from an aesthetics standpoint,
which means how good you look. Like, you
want your muscles to look good, you want
your skin to look good. I could create
an argument, though I don't love doing
this, but to be real, 20 grams of
carbohydrates a day is good. Like,
you'll look you'll look better with 20
grams of carbohydrates a day. I I don't
necessarily think somebody should do
that every day, especially when they're
really trying to get lean, cuz the
carbohydrates are just not doing you any
favors. And bodybuilders are are great
with the getting depleted is what they
call it. Getting the carbohydrates out
of their system, doing a protein sparing
modified fast, which means they're only
consuming protein to just get their body
fat down as low as possible. So, this is
not going to help you with your
nutrition. Drinking a whole bottle of
this is 41 gram of carbohydrates. I
mean, that's that's a lot. And uh I
don't think anybody's going to portion
one of these
into, you know, 2.5 servings as the
bottle suggests. I mean, there's some
antioxidants in here, of course. Why
would you need antioxidants if you're
not oxidizing,
which anyone who's following a heavy
animal protein diet is not oxidizing?
So, you really don't need to worry about
that. But the electrolytes are
important. I choose to get my
electrolytes through if I I'm only on
the schedule to take in electrolytes if
I feel like I need it. If you need
electrolytes, like you'll feel it.
You'll feel kind of cramping. Your hands
will tighten up. Maybe your forearms
will tighten up while you're while
you're working out. Then I I like those
electrolyte products like uh Element,
which they call Element, which I guess
that's how they say that. Those are
good, especially because the amount of
sugar that they have in is less than 1
g. So, like way better than this as far
as the electrolyte water.
Yeah. I mean, it's it's it's water with
some salts in it, some potassium,
magnesium, and it's they put it together
with reverse osmosis, which is probably
means they take a lot of garbage out of
the water, which is probably not even in
the water because they filtered it first
anyway. But yeah, it's a it's a good
process. So, I'm going to say thumbs up
on this one. Probably thumbs down on
this one just because it's got a lot of
sugar. But, I hope that helps. and give
me questions in the comments section.
Thanks. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.